.\" %W% %G%
.TH NCIDD.BLACKLIST 5
.SH NAME
.B ncidd.blacklist
- blacklist file for \fIncidd\fR hangup
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIncidd.blacklist\fR file contains the expressions to match against a
telephone call name or number.
.P
If the hangup option is set and if there is no match in the whitelist file,
a match in the blacklist file will cause \fIncidd\fR to automatically
terminate the call.
.PP
The \fIncidd.blacklist\fR file understands 4 types of lines:
.TP 14
.B blank line:
skip it
.TP
.B comment line:
skip it
.TP
.B entry line:
process it
.PP
Entry lines contain one or more expressions and an optional comment.
An expression is either a string of non-blank characters or everything
between double quotes.  Multiple expressions are separated by spaces.
A comment must be last.
.PP
Entry line comments are either normal comments or match name comments.
.PP
A normal comment begins with a '#' and must not be immediately followed
by an equals sign. Anything after the '#' is ignored.
.PP
A match name comment begins with '#=' and is followed by a name to display for
the caller when the entry matches either the number or name of a call.
Do not use double quotes around the name.
.PP
Example:    407-555-5670    #= Unwanted Marketing Call
.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 3
Each expression is compared to the caller name and number.
.IP \(bu
Upper and lower case letters are significant.
.IP \(bu
The number must be a string of digits as they appear in
\fI/var/log/cidcall.log\fR.
.IP \(bu
A leading '1' is required if it is in \fI/var/log/cidcall.log\fR.
.IP \(bu
A partial name or number can match.
.IP \(bu
If regular expressions are used (regex = 1):
.br
* POSIX Extended Regular Expression Syntax.
.br
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression
.br
* Introduction to Regular Expressions
.br
  http://www.regular-expressions.info/quickstart.html
.IP \(bu
A '^' at the beginning of an expression means it must match at the start of
a name or number.
.IP \(bu
A "^1?" at the beginning makes a leading 1 optional.
This is only useful for US/Canadian numbers.
.IP \(bu
If an expression is longer than the name or number field it will never match.
.SH EXAMPLES
Blacklist the unassigned 999 area code with and without a leading 1
.RS 0
	^1?999
.RE
.PP
Blacklist callers with the name "BAD MARKETING":
.RS 0
	"BAD MARKETING"
.RE
.PP
Blacklist anything with "MARKETING" in the name:
.RS 0
	MARKETING
.RE
.PP
Blacklist a caller name and a different caller number on one line:
.RS 0
	Ogre 13215551212
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
ncidd.8, ncidd.conf.5, ncidd.alias.5, ncidd.whitelist.5
